Hello, hello, hello, and welcome
to English Learning for Curious
Minds, by Leonardo English, the show
where you can listen to fascinating
stories and learn weird and wonderful
things about the world at the same
time as improving your English.
I'm Alastair Budge, and in this episode
we are going to be talking about the news.
But not any news.
Today, in our last episode of the
year, we are going to be looking
back at six of the most unusual
news stories from the UK in 2025.
From KFC ice cream to crocodiles to
strange objects left on trains, this
is going to be a celebration of fun,
mostly harmless, and most certainly
unusual news from the past 12 months.
So, let’s not waste a minute
and get right into it.
If you have spent much time
following the British news in 2025,
you could be forgiven for thinking
that it is all doom and gloom.
Tax rises, protests, political
scandal, social division, talk
of the country going to the dogs.
While some of that may be
true, it isn’t going to be the
subject of today’s episode.
Today, we are only going to talk
about good, or rather, unusual news.
The kind of news that doesn’t make
the front page, because it isn’t that
newsworthy, it’s not that important.
But it is unusual, in some
cases funny, and a break from
the gloom of the front pages.
So, our first story is about
road signs, the signs placed
on the side of public roads.
You know, the kind of signs with
information like how many miles it
is to various towns, if there is a
certain speed limit, all the stuff that
a driver might need to be aware of.
The UK, as you will probably
know, is a relatively wet country,
wet and muddy in many parts.
And these road signs can get quite dirty,
with cars splashing through puddles and
covering them in muddy water, and so on.
And with local councils having
ever-diminishing budgets, well,
many road signs aren’t cleaned as
often as they probably should be.
If you’ve spent much time driving
around the UK, well, you probably
know what I’m talking about.
And when confronted with a dirty road
sign, most drivers no doubt think, “Well,
that’s a bit annoying, you can hardly
read what’s written there! They should
definitely send someone to clean that”.
Maybe they mutter about it to a
neighbour, or tell the hairdresser about
it when they’re getting their hair cut.
But nothing more comes of it.
The signs remain as muddy
and dirty as always.
This year, however, one man made the news
for taking things into his own hands.
Jake Tredgett, a young man from
Norwich, decided that if his local
council wasn’t going to clean
these road signs, well, he would.
Earlier this year, he started
posting videos of himself washing
dirty road signs, and he went
viral, racking up millions of views
of dirty signs being powerwashed.
He drives around his local area and
apparently stops whenever he sees a
dirty sign, grabs his power washer and
his phone, and leaves 10 minutes later
with the sign looking sparkling new.
I must confess that I watched a
few of these videos, you know,
as research for this episode, and
I can see why they were popular.
They are oddly cathartic, and there is
something surprisingly pleasing about
seeing a filthy road sign, and then 30
seconds later–with the video sped up, of
course–the thing looks brand new again.
Something else I noticed, however,
is that there is another aspect of
this story; he isn’t just a random
guy with a passion for cleaning.
He has a cleaning business, and I’m
sure his new-found social media success
hasn’t exactly been terrible for new
clients, so to say he is doing it
completely out of the goodness of his
own heart is perhaps a simplification.
But nevertheless, the signs in the
Norwich area are in slightly better
condition, thanks to Jake Tredgett,
and in my book that is no bad thing.
Unusual story number two is about
KFC, Kentucky Fried Chicken.
Now, like lots of companies, KFC
UK likes to jump on the April
Fool’s bandwagon by announcing
all sorts of implausible things.
This year, it announced that
it was launching its own brand
of “Fried-Chicken Toothpaste”.
This “press announcement” came out
on April 1st, so it was obviously
never meant to be taken seriously.
But just a month later there was an
announcement from KFC about a real
product, and one that is almost
as unbelievable as fried-chicken
flavoured toothpaste: gravy gelato.
Now gravy, in case you don’t know that
word, is the sauce you make from the fat
and juices released when you cook meat.
It’s normally a brownish sort of
colour, and you pour it over meat
to give it some extra flavour
and to make it taste less dry.
And in the UK, gravy is a particularly
popular option at KFC; people think it
goes very well with the fried chicken.
So that’s gravy.
And as for gelato, well you
might know this is ice cream.
Gelato is the Italian word for ice cream.
But there is an additional nuance we
need to mention; in the UK, like in
many countries, some shops or brands
have started to use “gelato” instead
of ice cream to make it sound like a
different and more premium product.
“Oh no, this isn’t normal ice cream;
this is gelato”, or something like that.
So, in May of this year, KFC
announced that it would be selling
a limited edition “gravy gelato”.
Not gravy “ice cream”, which might be
just normal, bog standard low-quality
ice cream, but premium gravy “gelato”.
According to the official release,
“With a luxuriously velvety texture
that melts in your mouth, this
unexpected savoury delight blends
KFC’s unmistakable bold taste with
traditional Italian gelato craftsmanship.”
And it continued, “Whether you spoon
it straight from the tub, serve it up
as a sidekick to chicken and waffles,
or bring it out as the main event at
your next Sunday roast – this one’s for
the gravy lovers, the flavour chasers,
and anyone brave enough to blur the
line between dinner and dessert.”
End quote.
Now, I must confess that I didn’t get the
chance to try this, and although I like
gravy and ice cream–or “gelato–I think
I’m quite happy to keep the lines between
dinner and dessert quite clearly defined.
And judging by the fact that it was a
limited release, and then nothing more
was heard of it, my suspicion is that it
tasted just as disgusting as it sounds.
So there we go, even with our reputation
for not being the world’s greatest
food connoisseurs, the prospect of
gravy-flavoured ice cream was too much
even for the people of Great Britain.
For story number three we will stay
on the topic of food, but we’ll move
into the surprisingly cut-throat
world of competitive gardening, of
people trying to grow the biggest
or most beautiful vegetables.
And if you have ever been to a village
fair in the UK, you will know that
these can be pretty serious affairs.
And nowhere is it more serious than
the CANNA National Giant Vegetables
Championship, which is held every Autumn.
This is like the Olympics for the
professional vegetable growers
of Britain, and 2025, it turns
out, was a record-breaking year.
Growers from across the country battled
it out, and the event smashed six Guinness
World Records for super-sized vegetables.
One man claimed a record in both
the longest aubergine category, with
his 49 centimetre monster, and the
tallest runner bean, which stretched
more than 8 metres into the sky.
A world-beating radish came in at 7.8
metres, a sweet pepper at 26 centimetres,
an 8 kilogramme celeriac, and at 4.39
kilogrammes, the world’s heaviest tomato.
But the star of the show was a
squash, which had to be taken to
the fair with a fork-lift truck.
It weighed an astonishing 1.3
tonnes, the equivalent of a
Volkswagen Golf, a small car.
It is quite something, and at
its peak it required a whopping
473 litres of water per day.
Now, story number four
is just plain weird.
In October of this year, police in
the Midlands city of Derby made an
announcement that residents should
stay vigilant because a crocodile
had been spotted in a canal.
Now, in case I need to clarify
this, crocodiles do not
naturally exist in the UK.
Yes, you might be able to see one in
the London Zoo, but no, you will not
accidentally stumble across one when
walking through the Scottish highlands, or
in a canal in Derbyshire, for that matter.
This being said, in October this year,
the police received a call from several
concerned residents saying that they
had seen a crocodile in the canal.
They presumably thought “what a
load of rubbish”, and when they
went to take a look, unsurprisingly,
no crocodile could be found.
But there were pictures of
the croc, and it looked real.
The police appealed to the public
for information about the crocodile.
Did someone dump it there?
Was it still alive?
Was it about to clamber out of
the canal and wreak havoc through
the calm streets of Derby?
And for several days…the
lines were silent.
Nobody knew anything about it.
Then, the mystery was solved.
Or at least, sort of solved.
The police announced that a
local fisherman was surprised
to find he had reeled in none
other than the missing crocodile.
And, surprise surprise, it was not
a real crocodile; it was a stuffed
model crocodile, filled with hay,
but it did look uncannily realistic.
To this day, however, nobody has
owned up to chucking it in there,
so the mystery remains unsolved.
Now, unusual news item number
five is really a collection
of different unusual items.
In January this year, a train operator
released a statement with a list of all
of the unusual items that had been left
by passengers on their trains that year.
The most common items will
probably not surprise you: mobile
phones, laptops, and wallets.
But there were several items that
certainly fit in the “unusual” category.
Someone left behind 10 kilograms of
raw chicken, which I should underline
is not suspected of being connected
to the invention of the KFC “gravy
gelato”, but as to what someone was doing
with 10 kilograms of raw chicken on a
train, well, that is anyone’s guess.
Someone also left behind a live hamster,
another person left a prosthetic leg,
while someone else left their wig.
So, it just goes to show that those
constant messages over the tannoy
reminding passengers to “remember to
take all of your belongings before you
get off the train”, and “unattended
belongings may be removed and destroyed”,
well, they do serve a purpose.
And if you are wondering whether the
hamster was joyfully reunited with
its owner, or it was, to use the
official term used in those threatening
messages, “destroyed”, unfortunately
the press announcement did not say.
Let’s assume it was a joyful reunion.
And now, moving onto our final story
of the day, this is actually one for
the most dedicated of listeners, as
you may remember that in a version
of this “unusual British news” from
a couple of years ago, in 2023, there
was the story of a solid gold toilet
being stolen from Blenheim Palace.
This was a work by an Italian
artist who had created a functioning
toilet made out of solid gold.
The gold alone was worth
a reported $4 million.
Although the museum manager had boasted
that there was no need to guard it,
because it was an actual toilet and
therefore nobody would want to steal it,
they proved to be mistaken, as the entire
thing was ripped out of its plumbing.
For several years, the thieves remained
at large, but in 2023 two men were
arrested and taken into custody.
And this year they were finally sentenced.
One, James Sheen, was a career criminal,
but he fell into the trap many criminals
seem to fall into, of sending pictures
of large wads of cash and boasting
about the theft to his friends.
He was caught by the police, and
this year he was sentenced to four
years in prison, while another
man was sentenced to two years.
And as for the toilet, well, police
believe it was melted down almost
immediately, and the gold sold off
to dealers up and down the country.
During the trial, Sheen told the court
that he had first visited the toilet
as a paying customer, to inspect it.
He also admitted that during the visit
he had actually used the toilet for its
intended purpose, and lightheartedly
described the experience as "splendid".
No doubt the facilities he will
have to get used to in prison
might be somewhat less shiny.
OK, then, that is it for today's episode
on the unusual British news of 2025.
Lighthearted, goodnatured,
and well and truly weird.
And on that note, this is our last
episode of 2025, so let me take this
opportunity to thank you for your time,
thank you for listening and being part
of this weird and wonderful world,
and you will hear from me next year.
You've been listening to English Learning
for Curious Minds by Leonardo English.
I'm Alastair Budge, you stay safe, and
I'll catch you in the next episode.